1449 improve examples (#1661)
open-contracting/standard: docs/guidance/build/merging.md

The following examples show how updates and deletions are reflected in compiled and versioned releases.

## Updates

The [tender updates and amendments example](../map/amendments.md) illustrates how releases are used to update field values and how updates are reflected in compiled and versioned releases.

> ## Deletions

Reviewer: We need to differentiate this from the "Example 3: Deletion of array items" heading.

We can delete "Example 3:" from that last heading.

```suggestion
## Deletion of fields and objects
```

> ## Example 1: Updates

Reviewer 2: I think this example would be easier to parse if the tender update and tender cancellation releases include only the required, new and changed fields. Otherwise, readers have to scan a lot of JSON to identify what changed.

Author: I've removed all the non-required and non changing fields from ghana_tender2 and ghana_tender3

Reviewer 2: Looks good!

> The Ghana Public Procurement Authority publishes a release to announce an opportunity on October 21, 2020 with an estimated value of 13,000 GHS. On November 5, 2020 it publishes an update containing the details of two tenderers and the publication date of the bidding documents.

Reviewer 2: `tender.datePublished` is no longer in the example data.

```suggestion
The Ghana Public Procurement Authority publishes a release to announce an opportunity on October 21, 2020 with an estimated value of 13,000 GHS. On November 5, 2020 it publishes an update containing the details of two tenderers.
```

> A government agency in Ghana publishes a release to announce an opportunity on October 21, 2020 with an estimated value of 13,000 GHS. On November 5, 2020 they publish an update containing the details of 2 parties that have submitted bids and the publication date of the bidding documents.

Reviewer 2: * Include the publisher's name
* 'they' -> 'it' to match 'publishes' rather than 'publish'
* '2' -> 'two' because it's usual in technical writing to write out numbers less than ten
* 'parties that have submitted bids' -> 'tenderers' for brevity, consistency with OCDS terminology and to avoid passive voice
```suggestion
The Ghana Public Procurement Authority publishes a release to announce an opportunity on October 21, 2020 with an estimated value of 13,000 GHS. On November 5, 2020 it publishes an update containing the details of two tenderers and the publication date of the bidding documents.
```

> The agency then decides to cancel the tender. On December 19, 2020 it publishes a third release announcing that the tender has been cancelled.

Reviewer 2: Remove the first sentence because it's likely the buyer/procuring entity that decides to cancel the tender rather than the publisher.

```suggestion
On December 19, 2020 it publishes a third release announcing that the tender is cancelled.
```

> Through these individual releases, the agency provides real-time data about the contracting (or planning) process.

Reviewer 2: In this example, it's a contracting process so we don't need the part in parentheses.

```suggestion
Through these individual releases, the agency provides real-time data about the contracting process.
```

In each release, the agency also updates the record, which combines all the releases to date. In the final record:

* The compiled release contains all the information about the opportunity and the tenderers, using the same schema as a release.

> * The versioned release makes it easy to see how the amount of information provided changed over time.

Reviewer 2: Describe the general use case for versioned releases. I'm not sure the specific use case of tracking changes to the amount of information provided exists.

```suggestion
* The versioned release makes it easy to see how the contracting process changed over time.
```

```{jsoninclude} ../../examples/merging/updates/ghana_tender1.json
:jsonpointer: /releases
:expand: tag, tender, parties

> :title: tender

Reviewer 2: Clarify that the example shows a release. Use human-readable code titles rather than codes.

```suggestion
:title: Tender release
```

```

```{jsoninclude} ../../examples/merging/updates/ghana_tender2.json
:jsonpointer: /releases
:expand: tag, tender, parties

> :title: tenderUpdate

Reviewer 2: Clarify that the example shows a release. Use human-readable code titles rather than codes.

```suggestion
:title: Tender update release
```

Author: I think this change is causing an error in the tests

Author: and when you build the docs locally the dropdown menu only picks up the first word in the title so you get a list of "Tender, Tender, Tender, Record"

Author: so I've undone this change

Reviewer: Yes, the current code has limitations. We can address this as part of https://github.com/open-contracting/standard/issues/1021

```

```{jsoninclude} ../../examples/merging/updates/ghana_tender3.json
:jsonpointer: /releases
:expand: tag, tender, parties

> :title: tenderCancellation

Reviewer 2: Clarify that the example shows a release. Use human-readable code titles rather than codes.

```suggestion
:title: Tender cancellation release
```

Author: as above I've undone this change

```

```{jsoninclude} ../../examples/merging/updates/ghana_versioned.json
:jsonpointer:
:expand: records, compiledRelease, versionedRelease, tag, tender
:title: record

> ```

Reviewer 2: To aid understanding, I suggest ordering the fields in the examples according to the schema or at least reordering the release-level fields so that `date` and `tag` appear before the `tender` object.

Similar to my feedback on the example on `primer/how.md`, I think these examples would better serve the purpose of the page if

1. The package is omitted
2. The number of fields is significantly reduced.

Otherwise, it's difficult for readers to spot what changed in each release.

I would do (1) by updating the `:jsonpointer:` option of the jsonschema directives so that the JSON files are still valid OCDS release/record packages and (2) by removing fields from the JSON files (rather than using the `:include_only:` option) so that we don't need to maintain more fields than necessary in the example files.

> :title: record

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:title: Record
```

Author: To keep it looking like the other options in the drop-down menu I've undone this change
